Netskope is a cloud security platform that provides real-time visibility of the managed devices accessing the cloud 
and web from any location. 

The Netskope Client is a lightweight application that steers traffic from the end-user device to Netskope Cloud. 

It uses a Forward Proxy Steering mechanism where the Client creates an SSL tunnel from the end device and
terminates it at the Netskope forward proxy in the Cloud.


____________
è un proxy su cloud gestito da piattaforma sempre su cloud.
L'azienda dopo il pagamento ha accesso a un utenza di amministrazione da cui approva le utenze che possono collegarsi al proxy 
Inoltre può definire le regole di 'steering' ovvero di traffico che va reinidrizzato dal client al server finale (alcuni indirizzi ad esempio quelli della intranet in questo modo diventano accessibili)
Dalla piattaforma è possibile anche andare a scaricare il pacchetto exe eseguibile per l'instrallazione sul pc windows 
(occorre loggarsi alla piattaforma)

Una volta installato l'applicativo si scarica le chiavi pubbliche e private per connettersi al server Netskope (è presente l'indirizzo chiamato tenant)


____


A proxy server is a server application that acts
as an intermediary between a client requesting a resource and the server providing that resource 


There are different types of proxy servers, such as forward proxies and reverse proxies 1. A forward proxy is an Internet-facing proxy used to retrieve data from a wide range of sources (in most cases, anywhere on the Internet) 1. A reverse proxy
is usually an internal-facing proxy used as a front-end to control and protect access to a server on a private network.

Compared to traditional firewalls, which use a passthrough approach, forwarding traffic to the intended recipient while its contents are still being inspected, a forward proxy doesn’t forward
traffic until its contents have been through an authentication process and determined to be safe 

There are different types of proxies, such as forward proxies and reverse proxies 1.

A forward proxy is a type of proxy server that sits between one or more user devices and the internet 2. 
It acts as an intermediary that evaluates the client request, 
takes any necessary actions, and routes the request to the destination on the client’s behalf 2. 
The proxy then evaluates and inspects any response, takes action as needed, and forwards it to the originating client if appropriate 2. 
Forward proxies are used to retrieve data from a wide range of sources (in most cases, anywhere on the Internet) 2. 
They can shield users from direct access to or from bad actors as well as prevent them from compromising data and enterprise resources—intentionally or not 2.

A reverse proxy is usually an internal-facing proxy used as a front-end to control and protect access 
to a server on a private network 1. A reverse proxy commonly also performs tasks such as load-balancing, authentication, 
decryption and caching 1


The key difference between a forward proxy and a reverse proxy is that the first one is used by a client, 
e.g., a user inside a private network, while the second one is used by an internet server 3. 
A forward proxy can be positioned in the private network together with the user, or it can be online.
A reverse proxy, on the other hand, routes traffic on behalf of multiple servers 2. It effectively serves as a gateway between clients, users, and application servers 2. It handles all the access policy management and traffic routing, 
and it protects the identity of the server that actually processes the request 2.
